Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A set of instructions that can be used to produce various kinds of output.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
JDK contains JRE along with development tools such as compiler,debugger etc.JDK is a super set of JRE.
JRE - JRE is the environment where JVM runs.It contains JVM,class libraries, and other files.
Compiler - Converts source code(.java) into byte code(.class).
Debugger - The Java Debugger,jdb, is a simple command-line debugger for java class.
What is IDE?
IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment which is a software application which enables users to
write and debug Java programs easily.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse,IntelliJ IDEA,NetBeans,Codeenvy,DrJava,BlueJ,JGrasp etc.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
-Create high-level Java text file and save as a .java file(e.g. test.java).
-Compile the file(test.java) which results in a .class file(test.class) which contains the bytecodes.
-Class loader loads the file into memory.
-JVM reads the bytecodes in the memory and translate into machine code.
what is class?
A class is a blueprint from which individual objects are created.It describes the behavior/state of the object.
What is object?
Object is a bundle of data and its behavior. A car has states - color,model,vin number and behavior can be forward and
reverse biased and break.
What is the entry point of an application?
The entry point is a class having a method with signature public static void main(String[] args).
Why main is static?
We do not need to create object for static methods to run.They can run itself.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Object class in the java.lang package.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path variable is used to set the path for all java software tools such as javac.exe,java.exe
Class path is used to set the path for java classes.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Interface can have only abstract methods.Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods.
Interface has only static and final variables where as abstract class can have final, non-final,static and non-static
variables. Interface can not provide the implementation of abstract class.
All the members of interface are public by default.Members of an abstract class can be public,private,protected
or default.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No.Interface will be implemented by other class.To use Abstract class we need to create another class
that will extend abstract class and the object of the child class will call both abstract
(abstract in parent,implemented in child class) and non-abstract methods.
what is Access Specifier?
Access Specifier helps to restrict the scope of a class, constructor , variable , method or data member.
There are four types of access specifier in java:
Default – Scope is package level.No keyword required
Private - Object accessible only in class in which they are declared.
Protected - Scope is within the class and subclass.
Public - Accessible to all.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP stands for Object Oriented Programming.
Object Oriented Programming features:
Abstraction-hiding unnecessary details of an object from the user.
Encapsulation-means binding object state(fields) and behaviour(methods) together.
Inheritance-process by which one class acquires the properties and functionalities of another class
Polymorphism-feature that allows us to perform a single action in different ways.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A package is a group of classes, interfaces and other packages.It is used to provide access control
and to locate the related classes.Two types:Built-in packages and the User defined package.
java.lang is imported by default.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API stands for Application Programming Interface.It includes all Java packages,classes and interfaces along
with their method,fields and constructors.List of API: java.io,java.lang,java.util.Random,java.util.Scanner,
java.io.Filereader etc.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not????
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for???
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









